docs(api): liquid classes in API 2.23 (#17992)
OpenTrons/opentrons-api: api/docs/v2/liquid_classes.rst

:og:description: How to select and apply a liquid class definition in Opentrons protocols.

.. _liquid-classes: 

***************
Liquid Classes 
***************

> At the core of your protocol are liquid transfers, the liquid handling steps the robot performs to move liquids in labware. 

Reviewer: I wonder about improving the intro sentence some. A good opener is always challenging. 

Maybe just a good old "This section explains how to use liquid classes in your protocols. Identifying liquids by class can help [optimize, improve, dealer's choice] transfer performance" or some such.

Accounting for properties of a liquid, like viscosity or volatility, can improve pipetting accuracy on the Flex. You can use liquid classes in your protocols to automatically define optimized transfer behavior based on a specific liquid. For example, a slower flow rate can improve pipetting for a viscous liquid, and an air gap can prevent a volatile liquid from dripping onto the deck. 

Each Opentrons-verified liquid class is defined by a set of properties: 

> .. list-table::

Reviewer: List tables, yessssss.

    * - Delay
      -
        * Time the pipette delays before submerging into or retracting from liquid. 
        * Time the pipette delays before or after an aspirate or dispense, or after a push out. 
    * - Mix
      - Mix liquid inside a well before an aspirate or after a dispense.
    * - Pre-wet tip
      - Pre-wet tip before an aspirate to prevent droplets from sticking to the pipette. 
    * - Flow rate*
      - Speed the pipette aspirates or dispenses liquid at. 
    * - Retract position, speed
      - 
        * Position the pipette moves to in order to retract from the liquid. 
        * Speed the pipette retracts at to prevent droplets from sticking to the pipette. 
    * - Push out*
      - Volume of air the pipette dispenses to ensure all liquid leaves the tip. 
    * - Touch tip
      - Pipette touches the tip to the sides of a well to remove droplets from the pipette. 
    * - Air gap*
      - Pipette adds an air gap after an aspirate or dispense to prevent liquid from dripping onto the deck.
    * - Blowout
      - Larger volume of air the pipette dispenses to ensure all liquid leaves the tip. 

> A :ref:`liquid class definition <liquid-class-definitions>` specifies values for each property based on the liquid class. When you transfer with a liquid class in your protocol, transfer behavior based on each property is automatically applied. For example, when you use `.InstrumentContext.transfer_with_liquid_class` to transfer a viscous liquid, your Flex pipette automatically submerges more slowly into the liquid to prevent air bubbles from forming. 

Reviewer: This is a style-only comment. There's something about the "When you transfer ... property is automatically applied" sentence. Passive voice. Something has to do the applying, the class? the protocol?

"When your protocol includes a liquid class, the characteristics of that class control transfer behavior."

Something something.

> Properties marked with an asterisk, shown above, are determined by your pipette, tip, and volume combinations. For more information, see :ref:`liquid-class-definitions`. 

Reviewer: Passive voice here, but I don't have a good suggestion. Probably fine to just leave it alone. Into every paragraph, a little PV may fall.

.. _opentrons-verified-liquid-classes:

Opentrons-verified Liquid Classes
=================================

> Opentrons-verified liquid classes are liquid class definitions based on the properties of a specific liquid: 

Reviewer: Could we strike "liquid class definitions"?

```suggestion
Opentrons-verified liquid classes are based on the properties of a specific liquid: 
```

or maybe, "Opentrons-verified liquid class definitions are based on the properties of a specific liquid."

.. list-table:: 
    :header-rows: 1

    * - Opentrons-verified liquid class
      - Description
      - Load name
    * - Aqueous
      - 
        * Based on deionized water
        * The system default
      - ``water``
    * - Volatile
      - Based on 80% ethanol
      - ``ethanol_80``
    * - Viscous
      - Based on 50% glycerol
      - ``glycerol_50``

> You can define and specify liquid classes in your protocols to automatically apply transfer behavior like flow rate, submerge and retract speeds, and advanced settings optimized for your liquid class.

Reviewer: This sentence is doing a lot of work, too much perhaps. Let's try to break it up and slow things down some.

```suggestion
You can define and specify liquid classes in your protocols. The class characteristics automatically control transfer behavior. This includes settings like flow rate, submerge and retract speeds, and other advanced parameters specific to that class.
```

.. _selecting-a-liquid-class:

Selecting a Liquid Class
========================

> You'll use a :ref:`liquid class definition <liquid-class-definitions>` in your protocol to optimize transfer behavior based not only on liquid properties, but on your chosen Flex pipette and tips. Start by defining the tips, trash, pipette, and labware used in your transfers. Then, use :py:meth:`.ProtocolContext.define_liquid_class` to select a liquid class. 

Reviewer: This:
> based not only on

stands out a bit. 

Consider striking it. Try, "You'll use a `:ref: liquid class definition <liquid-class-definitions>` in your protocol to optimize transfer behavior based on liquid properties, along with your chosen Flex pipettes and tips."

.. code-block:: python
    :substitutions:

    from opentrons import protocol_api

    requirements = {"robotType": "Flex", "apiLevel": "|2.23|"}

    # define tips, trash, and pipette
    def run(protocol: protocol_api.ProtocolContext):
        tiprack1 = protocol_context.load_labware("opentrons_flex_96_tiprack_50ul", "D3")
        trash = protocol_context.load_trash_bin("A3")
        pipette_50 = protocol_context.load_instrument("flex_1channel_50", "left, tip_racks=[tiprack1]")
    
    ## load source and destination labware

        nest_plate = protocol_context.load_labware("nest_96_wellplate_200ul_flat", "C3")
        arma_plate = protocol_context.load_labware("armadillo_96_wellplate_200ul_pcr_full_skirt","C2")

    # select liquid classes
     
        liquid_1 = protocol_context.define_liquid_class("glycerol_50")
        liquid_2 = protocol_context.define_liquid_class("ethanol_80")
        liquid_3 = protocol_context.define_liquid_class("glycerol_50")

> You'll need to add a label to liquid classes in your protocol, like ``liquid_1``. Not only does this help you keep track of multiple liquids of the same class in a protocol, but ``transfer_with_liquid_class()`` requires a label previously defined in your protocol instead of a liquid class load name, like ``glycerol_50``. 

Reviewer: Again, watch out for that negation, "Not only". Instead, start that second sentence as "This label helps you track multiple liquids of the same class in a protocol."

And then go on to finish with, "It is also required by `transfer_with_liquid_class()` instead of a liquid class load name like `glycerol_50`.

.. _liquid-class-transfers:

Liquid Class Transfers
======================

> Use ``transfer_with_liquid_class`` to transfer an aqueous, volatile, or viscous liquid defined in your protocol. Here, you'll specify your liquid, volume, source, and destination wells, tip handling preferences, and the trash location. 

Reviewer: This is a method? Maybe should be, "Use the `transfer_with_liquid_class()` method to...

And then, "This method accepts arguments that let you specify your liquid, volume, source, and destination wells, tip handling preferences, and ~~the~~ trash location.
